We've been walking through, we started
this last week, we'll continue that
this week, and two more weeks in August.
Um, but we have been walking
through, uh, Matthew chapter 7.
Matthew chapter 7 is the last
chapter of the Sermon on the Mount.
Um, we're gonna have the verses
up here today, but we'll be
in verses 7 through 12 today.
And I'll be referencing several
other verses, so you'll see
those along the way as well.
Um, but in this Sermon on the Mount, uh,
we begin to see throughout the sermon
that there's a couple of different themes.
And some things...
that we obviously need to cover in the
first couple chapters because we didn't
go through them was Jesus was really
gathering all of his disciples, all of
his followers together to be able to
teach them how to live in the kingdom of
God, how to live in the kingdom of God.
Right?
He talks about the coming of the kingdom.
He talks about God's rescue plan
for the world, uh, and he begins
to really just teach them practical
things that, that each one of them
could apply to their lives as they
live out these kingdom principles.
And so we're kind of jumping in on the
back end of this sermon in chapter.
But chapter 7 stuck out to me.
The reason why I thought it would be
good for us to discuss is chapter 7 has
a lot of those verses that either people
misquote or they don't like to even talk
about because they're difficult verses.
And so used to, you guys know me a lot,
probably not, maybe, but this idea of
verses that are difficult in the Bible,
I typically would just avoid those.
Especially early on in
my preaching journey.
It's like, why go over those?
Because I'm probably not going to
have any clue how to preach them.
Um, and nowadays...
I kind of get excited because I'm
like, you know, these are the ones that
people probably actually reading them.
I really would love to
talk more about this.
And so last week we talked
about judging, right?
Judge not unless you be judged.
And that's one of those misquoted,
uh, a lot of times were misapplied,
uh, verses in the Bible.
Um, and then today we're going
to talk about this idea behind
asking, seeking, and knocking that
if we'll ask that we will receive.
And this is where we
start getting into this.
We have two sides of the people of
what they called the name and claimant,
which means if you name it and you ask
it, you will receive it no matter what.
And if you don't receive it,
it's your fault because you
didn't have enough faith.
Anybody ever heard that before?
No?
Okay.
Well then you haven't probably been in
the charismatic side of the church before.
But, um, you'll also see people that
will see this and then they're gonna say,
Well, you know, I'm afraid to even ask
God because I've asked Him before and He
hasn't answered and I don't believe Him.
So then they kind of
just ignore this verse.
Or maybe even an
unbeliever would say that.
So, we see kind of a couple different
perspectives on this specific
text that we're gonna cover today.
But we're gonna learn
that God gives good gifts.
And I would say this, God always God
always gives good gifts and we're
gonna see where the Bible affirms
that and we'll see also, um, that
God, when we think about asking, um,
He always answers whether we like
the answer or not, and I think that's
what we'll probably learn today.
So, when we think about God giving
good gifts, and this is where I'm gonna
include you guys to give some feedback,
when you think of something good,
right, when you would define something
good, how would you define good?
Somebody go ahead and
share something with me.
How would you define good?
Preach joy.
You're happy when it happens.
Things go alright.
Brings a smile to your face.
See, I think most of us would probably
say the perspective of good is
something that brings value to me.
But, now I want to kind of
flip it a little bit here.
How do you think, this is kind of
precursor to where we're going.
How do you think God defines good?
Okay, good.
What's best for your life?
What was that?
Value.
It's about more people than yourself.
Anybody else?
Most of you are probably just
like, yeah, okay, that's right.
So, that's what we're
going to dive into today.
Because I think when we think
about our good, what we think
is good, and what God thinks is
good, sometimes doesn't match up.
And if you're anything like
me, that's hard to reconcile.
When what I think is good and what
God thinks is good doesn't match up, I
begin to really question God, I begin to
question my faith, I begin to question
And so I think this is a difficult text
because understanding God's good is
the greatest good for us is sometimes
a lesson that is hard to learn, right?
And so, um, something that, some things
just to kind of take home, I want to
kind of put them up front and then
we'll continue to walk through them.
Something that you'll hear about
today is this idea behind God's
perspective is not limited.
When we think about what is good, God's
perspective is not limited, right?
He's the alpha and omega,
the beginning and the end.
His perspective.
is allowed to see everything
all at the same time.
But our perspective is narrow.
It's limited.
And so when God defines good, he sees
this whole picture, not just our lives.
Right?
And so I think that's something
that we'll continue to think through
as we go through this message.
So let's read the verses and then jump in.
So he says this in verse
seven, Matthew chapter seven.
It says, ask and it will be given to you.
Seek and you will find.
Knock and the door will be opened to you.
Forever.
Everyone who asks, receives.
For the one who seeks, finds.
And to the one who knocks,
the door will be opened.
Who among you, if his son asks him
for bread, will give him a stone?
Or if he asks for a fish,
will give him a snake?
If you then, who are evil, know how to
give good gifts to your children, how
much more will your Father in Heaven give
you good things to those who ask Him?
Therefore, whatever you want
from others, to do for you.
Do also the same for them, for
this is the law and the prophets.
So let's pray.
Lord Jesus, we just pray, Lord,
as we dive into your word, Lord,
that you help us understand it.
Um, Lord, I just pray that we,
um, leave out of here, uh, with
new understanding of what it means
to ask and to seek and to not.
And Lord, I just pray that we
apply that to our lives and we
experience you in a new way.
And we just pray this
in your heavenly name.
Amen.
So how does God give good gifts?
I think it's pretty simple.
The text clarifies that to
ask and we seek and we not.
Um, and I, and I think what is really
cool is he's speaking to his believers
and he's really challenging, again,
the believers and disciples he's
speaking to that day, he's really
challenging them to approach God.
Now think about this, at Old Testament
times, it was scary to approach God.
You, if you really didn't approach
God, you would actually use a priest to
approach God because you were too guilty
of your sin and you were too broken.
Um, and so many people were very
humbled by even approaching God.
And so Jesus is kind of
changing the scenario for them.
Hey, approach God.
Ask.
Seek.
Even knock on his door.
Uh, and so that was interesting
when we think about how he's
challenged them to do that.
And I started thinking this question
Do you struggle to ask God for things?
Anybody?
A couple of you?
Does anybody not struggle with asking God?
Like you're totally cool.
Yeah, I'm cool.
Great.
Again, I think that's great.
What I would find though is that a
lot of people struggle to approach
God for a couple of different reasons.
Now I think that's why Jesus is even
approaching this in this idea of most
people are afraid to approach God.
And I believe one of the reasons
why is because we think that
it may inconvenience God.
Think about it this way is, you know, what
I want to ask God for is, you know, maybe
tomorrow for my kids not to act so bad.
Like that's so small.
I mean there's people
that are dying of hunger.
I don't even want to approach God.
So you're afraid to even ask
God those questions because
you're like, it's just so small.
So maybe that's one reason why
you would want to approach God.
I think the other one could be is
that he doesn't have time for me.
He doesn't have time for me,
it's a waste of his time, uh,
because he's God, and I'm not.
And so, maybe he, to you,
is not approachable in it.
But I would say maybe here
is where some of us land.
And this is maybe where I land, and
so maybe I'm just kind of assuming
this, but in some conversations I
would say I would relate with this.
We don't approach God
because we lack faith.
And we usually lack faith that
God will respond to what we ask.
Because we say he has not answered me
before or his answer that he gave me
I didn't like anybody ever Received
those answers from god you asked and
the answer you got you didn't like
And so we begin to say, you know what?
I don't like it I I'm afraid
to even approach god because
I don't even want the answer.
So I just avoid it Altogether and so I
would call this really a lack of faith
And I really want to challenge this idea
today with faith because I think this is
part of the asking that god's gonna We're
gonna Today, it's this idea behind faith
when we ask, knowing we've received it.
So faith is seeing what God sees,
even when though we don't see it.
So when we're asking God to move in
our lives in an area, it's believing
that God is already answered.
That even if you don't see it today
because you believe that God is
good and God is working, despite
sometimes what we see in our lives,
and Hebrews 11, six reminds us of this.
He says this now without faith, it is.
Possible to please God since the one who
draws near to him must believe that he
exists and he rewards those who seek him.
So we see just even in this text, this
idea behind faith is what pleases God.
So when we seek and when we ask,
and when we knock in faith, he
says that he will reward, reward
us and he will respond to us.
Um, and again, when we think
about that may be hard for us to
think through when we think about
asking, because sometimes we ask
halfheartedly, we don't really believe.
We just kind of do it out
of ritual or repetition.
So let's kind of dive into these verses
and see these words and really see what
it means to ask and to seek and to knock.
And I think the way that we
dive into this, we have to
think of a couple of things.
Number one is context.
And the reason why I say this is most of
these verses, if we go back to last week,
don't judge unless you've been judged.
Context is important.
And context is a big word, so
I want to define that for you.
Context is the parts of something
written or spoken that was
immediately preceding the passage.
Passage to clarify its meaning.
I'm gonna say that again.
Context is the parts of something written
or spoken that immediately proceeded
a passage to clarify its meaning.
So when we think about this whole sermon
on the Mount, in order to approach
God and ask him, we have to kind of
know what he's been saying before
to understand how the asking goes.
Well, whenever you think about
asking, seeking and knocking, I
kind of associate those with prayer.
Does anybody else kinda associate
those things with prayer?
Well, Jesus actually
spoke on prayer back in.
And the cool part is, Dave, if you were
here for the two weeks that Dave came
in and preached for me a couple weeks
ago, he talked about that prayer text.
And in that prayer text,
this is what Jesus said.
He says, you ought to pray this, he says,
ask for God's kingdom to come for his will
to be done in heaven as it is on earth.
That was one of the things that he
said to ask, he said, to ask for your
daily needs, ask God to forgive you,
ask God to help you forgive others.
He says to ask God to
deliver you from evil things.
So when we look at this asking.
Seeking and knocking those are the
things in which he's suggesting
and pointing us towards asking.
And really, when we think about
this, he says, may God's key to
be done made his will be done.
Really?
That's a broad picture when we
think about in the acts asking,
but if you go on even further in
Matthew chapter six, you'll also see
later on where he talks about this.
He says, seek first the kingdom of God
and his righteousness, and then all
of these things will be added to you.
So he's really talking about not
worrying about the things in which we.
Need the essentials of our daily life
and so think about this This is where
God's saying you know in our asking ask
for your daily needs in what you need
He says seek first the kingdom of God.
And so knowing this changes the way
in which we approach this test Texts
and asking seeking and knocking and
so I think it's important for us to
take that into consideration So let's
jump in he says he gives us good gifts
when we ask seek and knock So let's
start with the word ask if you dive
into that word ask a little bit deeper.
It's actually interesting Oh It's
even driven down to be this, it's
a desire, begging, or craving.
So think about when we approach
God and we begin to ask, we truly
desire, we're begging to God,
we're craving a response from God.
And when you dive even a little bit
further into that and kind of break
that down a little bit, our asking
really comes from a deep, deep desire
that I would say would be connected
to the Spirit of God inside of you.
When we approach God, it's the Spirit
of God that actually interprets you.
for us a lot of times.
And he talks about this later on, um,
but he interprets our groanings at times.
When we don't know what to say
when we pray, the Spirit of God is
interpreting or providing that for us.
And so, what is God's
response when we ask?
And he clearly states it here.
He says, it will be given to you.
And I, I just tell you guys,
whenever I dive into these
things, this is a tough text.
If you just read it from word
for word, it means just asking
God's going to give it to you.
If you don't look at context, you
don't look at who God is as a whole,
that means I can ask for a person.
Purple Corvette.
I don't know why purple.
Probably because that's what Peyton wants.
But Purple Corvette.
And I would receive it, right?
Based upon just reading this text at
face value, that should be true, right?
But does anybody believe that's true?
If so, can somebody go outside
and check the, the parking lot?
Because I hope I have a Purple
Corvette, and then we'll just
spend the rest of our time asking.
It's yellow.
Okay.
We got the color off,
but I'll still take it.
Okay?
So, so it's not that simple.
But that's why I look, and have
to dive into these words and he
says, it will be given to you.
Okay.
So that tells me his word
says it will be given.
If I ask and the word given is this
when we think about the word given
it dive out and a little bit deeper.
He says these things that will
be given are to our advantage
and necessary for our lives.
So when we're asking we're asking for
things in which bring value to our
lives and that really relates to if we
go back to Matthew 6, how do you pray
seek first his kingdom and he says
also ask for your needs to be met.
So that aligns.
So we're not asking for a purple
Corvette because that's what we
really don't need the purple Corvette.
We really want it.
But there's things that we do
need, and so he says those things
that we need will be given.
And he even goes down in verse
80 and talks about this word,
Everyone who asks will receive.
Everyone.
And we think about this, and this
is another picture with this.
He says everyone will receive.
And I would think this way, everyone
has access to, or can take hold of.
So, let me just give you a great example.
If I ask.
For something from God
that is a need in my life.
Many times God will provide that need, but
sometimes not in the way that we want it.
God will provide it.
We have full access to it, but we
refuse to receive it because of we don't
want to be humble in our receiving.
We don't want to trust
God in our receiving.
We don't like the way in
which he's given it to us.
We don't like the answer
that God gives to us.
So it's sitting there and it's not being
received because we aren't taking it.
So there's two parts to this.
And we'll continue to see
that theme as we go on.
So he says to seek,
not only ask, but seek.
And that's totally different, right?
We're not just verbally asking, but
we're pursuing God in our asking.
And it's interesting when
you look at the word seek.
It also translates to crave.
So if I see that word crave
twice in asking and in seeking,
I think of it this way.
Guys, when I'm hungry, I seek out food.
There's nothing stopping me from
fulfilling the need that is deep
down in my stomach to fulfill
the fuel that I need in my body.
There is a deep desire.
Well, when we ask, we're asking and
we're seeking from that craving.
That we desire to hear from God
and for God to move in our lives.
So to crave or to strive
or to pursue after.
Does anybody know where
we should seek God?
Where should we seek God?
Hmm?
Everywhere.
Everywhere?
Yeah.
But where does God speak to us?
My kids asked me this question last night.
Dad?
When, uh, when you prayed about
coming to Cincinnati to plant a
church, how did God answer you that?
That's a fun one, right?
How did God answer you?
Jesus, did He speak to you audibly?
I was like, no.
But there was something inside of you,
there was a craving that as we were
pursuing God that there was a satisfaction
in the calling that God was calling us to.
There was confirmation in His word
that He said that if we will go, if we
will go in faith that He will provide
everything that we need along the way.
So when we think about seeking, it's
seeking His word, it's seeking His
presence, it's genuinely looking for God.
And not just how you want them to respond,
because a lot of times we'll say, God,
give me this, and if you don't give me
this, I will not listen to anything else
because ultimately it is his kingdom
and his will, but we're asking from the
spirit of God inside of us and the word
of God around us in faith, the things
that God says he will provide for us.
And so God's response with the
seeking is you will find, right?
You will experience it,
see it and discover it.
If you seek him, you will seek him.
I think of knocking and taking action.
Let me just give you
another example of this.
Last week we had a mission team, we
were going door to door to invite some
people to um, next week we're doing
kind of a children's camp for Booker T.
Washington which is a
great opportunity for us.
So we're knocking on
doors to invite people in.
And I'm kind of this weird person
because every single time I go up
to the door I think of what if I
was on the other side of the door?
Does anybody like their
door to get knocked on?
No.
We don't.
But I'm doing it.
But I'm doing it because I think it's
good, because there's a lot of kids
in this neighborhood that really need
Jesus and really just need to be loved
on, and I'm willing to, to risk being a
little bit forward knocking on that door.
And so sometimes I'll catch myself,
depending on the door, because I'm a
little freaked out, knocking lightly,
hoping they don't answer something.
I'll stick a card in
the door and run away.
Don't, don't judge me, but it happens.
But you know, I was going with this
group and there's one lady in this
group, she just had a boldness about her.
She'd walk up to the door.
TCH TCH TCH TCH TCH And I'm like,
Somebody's going to run out and
be like, What are you doing?
And you know how many times
more people answered her doors?
Because she was intentional.
She was willing to look a little foolish
because of her desire for those kids that
were going to answer the door of their
parents to send their kids to this camp.
See, that's what I begin to imagine.
When we think about seeking, when
we think about asking, when we think
about knocking, it is something where
you're being loud and proud with it.
You are bold with it, right?
You're bold with it.
And I, I think of it this way as well,
and I want us to look at Luke chapter 18.
If you want to turn there, you can.
It should be up on the screen as well.
Luke chapter 18 is a great example of a
woman who kept being persistent and loud.
Um, and so let's look at this together.
Luke chapter 18, it says, Now he told
them, and this is Jesus speaking.
Now he told them a parable on the need
for them to pray always and not give up.
It says, He says there was a judge
in a certain town who didn't fear
God or respect people, and a widow in
that town kept coming to him saying,
give me justice against my adversary.
For a while he was unwilling, but later
he said to himself, even though I don't
fear God or respect people, yet because
the widow keeps pestering me, I will
give her justice so that she doesn't
wear me out by her persistent coming.
Then the Lord said, listen to
what the unjust judge says.
not God grant justice to his elect
who cry out to him day and night,
will he delay in helping them?
I tell you that he will
swiftly grant them justice.
Nevertheless, when the son of man
comes, will he find faith on earth?
Don't miss that last piece.
What Jesus is saying to this woman,
what Jesus is telling his disciples
in this chapter is this idea of being
persistent, being consistent in faith,
trusting and believing that when Roach
God and asking, and in seeking and
knocking that we believe he will respond.
Faith is seen sometimes what God sees,
which means sometimes God says the bigger
picture and that bigger picture is yes.
Sometimes it's no.
Sometimes it's not yet.
Sometimes it's, do you trust me here,
I, I, I, I, I'm telling you, I laugh
about these things in my life, but I
go back to too many times in my life
where it's like, man, I really feel like
our relationship with Jesus is great.
I just trusted God.
We moved from Oklahoma.
We've seen God do some amazing things
and then something happens in my life
and it's almost like I, I hear God
saying this to me, do you trust me here?
It's financially, we're struggling.
Do you trust me here?
My kids are not listening.
I'm having issues in my family, my
family's struggling back in Oklahoma.
Do you trust me here?
That's where faith comes from
because God's got the perspective.
I don't.
And I'll just tell you this.
This is something.
I hope you cling on today when you're
struggling with God's response to
your asking, seeking and knocking,
have faith in his perspective.
I'm telling you, I want to have God's
perspective leading my life than mine.
Mine is so narrow minded and
it's also from a broken person.
He's going to speak directly
to that here in just a minute.
So all these things are so critical
when we think about this, right?
His knocking.
He says this, he says, God's response.
It'll be open to you.
And I love this picture.
God.
God doesn't refuse to answer
when we consistently knock.
His desire is to hear our requests.
And let me just be honest as a parent,
because God is our father and we are his
children and we've given our lives to him.
But as a parent, sometimes
my kids annoy me.
I love them.
But you guys know this.
You're driving to Florida and you're 15
minutes in and they say, are we there yet?
And you're like, no.
20 minutes later, are we there yet?
No.
I'm like, you better shut your mouth, sit
down, and I'll tell you when we're there.
Now, I don't say that to my kids.
Yeah, but sometimes that
persistent asking annoys me.
But it doesn't annoy our Father in Heaven.
You wanna know why?
Because He loves us.
He sees our brokenness.
And when we begin to ask,
He desires to hear from us.
And He's not fallible like
me as a parent sometimes.
So God is different.
God's eager to hear our
requests and meet our needs.
Right?
And so He goes on here.
And he begins to kind of compare
now this idea about why he
wants to give these good gifts.
Why he wants to answer when
we ask, seek, and knock.
And he compares it to the evil
people who give good gifts.
So let's kind of remind
ourselves of these verses.
He says this in verse 9.
Who among you, if a son asks him
for bread, will give him a stone?
Or if he asks him for a
fish, will give him a snake?
If you then, who are evil, know how to
give good gifts to your children, how
much more will your Father in Heaven
give good gifts to those who seek Him?
So he's talking...
We're gonna give good gifts.
If you're not a parent in the
room, it doesn't really matter.
This idea behind, people
know how to give good gifts.
It doesn't matter if you're a
parent or not, you just, you
know how to give good gifts.
You're not gonna be crazy when
you think about this and you look
at the children who's hungry or
somebody who's hungry, you're not
gonna give them a stone to chew on.
Anybody gonna give somebody
a stone to chew on?
Right, that's what I was gonna say.
If somebody raises their hand,
I'm probably gonna smack you.
That's stupid.
Um, I'm not gonna, I'm really,
somebody's got to tell me to stop
saying things because this is bad.
Brittany's not here.
She's not here to calm you down.
Um, wow, I gotta step back.
Don't tell her, Lauren.
Don't text her.
Okay, you can send that back.
He also says who here basically
wouldn't give meat, right,
to their child who needs it?
Who would put a snake on their plate?
And here's the thing, there's probably
somebody in this room who would do
that just to laugh at their kids.
But that's not what
we're talking about here.
We wouldn't do that because we
genuinely care for our children.
We genuinely care for others that
we wouldn't give them a stone.
We wouldn't give them a snake.
We would give them the things
that they need because...
We're, we're even as evil people good,
and, and let me just kind of address that.
Reading sometimes this text and hearing
that God is speaking to us as though we
are evil people, it's like, how dare you?
Anybody ever feel that way sometimes?
I'm a good person.
I'm good.
Well, what God is saying
is none of us are good.
No, not one.
And the Bible even reminds us of this
in Romans 3 10 through 12, it says this,
there is no one righteous, not even one.
There's no one who understands.
There's no one who seeks God.
All have turned away, all
alike have become worthless.
There is no one who does
what is good, not even one.
And this is the reason why Jesus came,
to be the righteousness of God for us.
To be able to provide
what we couldn't provide.
We are good at giving good gifts as
evil people, or sinful people, or
people who don't, um, have that perfect
relationship with God, but God is
the one who gives the greatest gifts.
The greatest gifts.
And so, when we think about this idea of
a I think it's important to understand
that when we ask God something, He's
going to give us a greater gift than
even we can give our own children.
And maybe even our own friends.
I don't know if you just have
friends or family members.
I really want this to resonate with
everybody even if you don't have kids.
You know how to give good gifts.
Even as a broken person.
But God gives the greater gift.
The greater gift.
Right?
So how much more perfect
is this greater gift?
How I want you to remember this,
is that our greatest gift that
we can give anyone is Jesus.
So the greater gift that Jesus
gives is salvation of our souls,
forgiveness of our sins, a life that
gives us the fruits of the Spirit,
that changes and transforms us.
Jesus gifts are way better.
So when we're approaching God, and God
doesn't necessarily respond the way
that we hoped He would, our perspective
is, God is so much greater than I need.
And that is hard to hear sometimes.
I just want to be real with you.
It is hard to hear that what
God ends up giving us doesn't
necessarily seem to benefit us.
But go back to what is
good in God's perspective?
He's thinking of the whole kingdom.
The beginning to the end.
His perspective isn't limited and so
He's using every single life and allowing
things to happen and meeting needs where
needs need to be met in order to bring
glory not only to Him but to bring really
what I would say It is a perspective
where everybody is looking towards
Christ, not towards all the other things
in the world that we think we need.
What we need is Jesus.
And ultimately everything
else flows out of that.
Yes, we need food.
We need clothing.
We need a house.
We, we need all these other things
that we begin to think that we need,
but ultimately God knows what's best.
And he knows that we need a
relationship with him first and then
all the other things flow under that.
And Philippians 419 reminds us of this
when we ask and we seek and we knock, he
says, My God will supply all your needs
according to his riches in Christ Jesus.
Jesus desires to fulfill all of our
needs and he will because he is good.
And so we need to remember as a
child approaches their parents,
they usually approach their
parents any time of the night.
I literally was up here during prayer
time getting a phone call from my
son because my youngest son's sick
at home while my other two kids are
taking care of him while my wife
and daughter are gone out of state.
And so like, I'm sitting here going,
I'm going to answer this phone, like,
because I care what my son has to say.
I'm not just going to ignore him because
I hate him because I don't hate him.
I love him.
And so God wants us to remember this,
that he, that we can approach him
anytime, night or day, any need that
we have, and he will begin to meet
our needs and answer our prayers.
But he does say this, that
he will define what is good.
God is not a genie in the bottle.
I've had to remind myself
of this all the time.
Anybody ever play that as a kid?
If you had three wishes,
what would you wish for?
Anybody?
That was, I mean, literally me and
my friends, I think it's probably
because the way we live, we always
talk about what we wish we had.
And when we talk about, you know,
I get a million dollars and I would
ask for this and I would ask for that
and just always seem to consume us
because that's what we wish we had.
But God is not a genie in a bottle.
We don't rub a lamp to get what
we want, those three wishes.
No, we pursue after God and
we trust his perspective.
And so God's perspective
isn't limited, right?
Ours is, and knowing that.
How we do this.
And I want to kind of remind us of another
scenario with this, any, any parents in
this room ever, uh, told their kids to
do something that they didn't want to do.
And here's the thing.
Anybody had a parent tell you something
that you didn't want to do when you
were growing up many times, and because
we're foul people, sometimes we make
wrong mistakes, but many times we're
making those decisions off of the
perspective that our kids don't have.
They've lived a life.
We've lived a life that
our kids haven't lived.
And so we protect them and we
don't allow them to go this place.
We don't allow them to have
that app, or that phone, or
that friend, or you name it.
And it's hard at that time,
because they don't understand it.
They're so mad.
Why aren't you giving me what I want?
And as parents, it's tough to say.
No.
But because we know what's
better for our kids, we say no.
That is God speaking to us as adults,
and here's the thing as adults, we're
like, we should get whatever we want,
and God should listen to me, and God's
like, no, because I have your best
interest at mind, and at heart, and maybe
that doesn't help you, but it helps me.
If I believe the best in God,
then when God responds differently
than what I desire, I accept it.
Not because it's easy.
But because it's best.
And to me, knowing things that I
protect my kids from, and knowing
what's best for them, and what I've
seen them saved from, in regards to
that, helps me know that my Heavenly
Father is doing the same thing for me.
And He's doing the same thing for you.
But it's hard.
It's hard.
So God says that He gives
us good gifts, right?
He gives us good gifts, and
He gives us these good things.
And he says this at the back
end of, uh, verse 11 here.
Um, and James 1, 17 even
affirms, affirms this.
He says, Every good and perfect
gift is from above, coming down
from the Father of lights, who does
not change like shifting shadows.
So God is good and he
gives us these good things.
And so when we understand the goodness
of his gift, we can trust him, right?
We can trust him with the right
perspective, with faith, knowing that
God is the one that is doing something.
greater.
Maybe even in the hard times of
asking and not receiving what we want.
So this last verse, and I'll just
kind of tell you a little bit of
the same thing as we did last week.
Last week, verse six kind of seemed
as a little bit of an outlier.
Verse 12 is a good verse.
It's actually known as the golden rule.
And it's a good verse in the fact that
there's somehow this doesn't seem to just
necessarily line up completely with this,
but there's a greater picture to this.
And this is the picture that we see.
Receiving good gifts from God reminds
us to give good gifts to others.
Many times in our asking and our
seeking and our knocking, we're so
very narrow-minded in our asking,
seeking and knocking that we forget
that it's all about God's kingdom.
And so he says this in verse 12.
Therefore, therefore, meaning take
everything that just got spoke about
into account, he says, whatever you want
others to do for you, do also for them.
For this is the law and the prophets.
Prophets.
So this idea that the God is saying
when we're seeking, when we're
asking, when we are knocking, we
are knocking and asking and seeking.
For the benefit of others too.
Because Many of us are
selfish and anybody's selfish.
I mean you you want what you want Uh,
and god is teaching us not to do that
But at times that just overcomes us
we we truthfully want what we want and
many times that are asking seeking and
knocking If my pastor used to tell me
this If god granted every single one of
your prayers that you prayed over the last
month, how many people would be affected?
It's convicting Because I can tell you
one to two Some of you are spiritual So
you probably have 15 or 20 praise God,
keep doing it and teach us, keep doing it.
But many of us would have one or two.
I believe this is exactly
what he's saying here.
If you are wanting God to respond to
your prayers, praying for others and
helping meet some of their needs,
you may be, and I've mentioned this
before as a church, you may be the
answer to someone else's prayer.
Maybe you need to hear that today
is when you see the needs of others
and maybe they've been praying,
but you don't know it and you.
You may be the answer to their prayers.
You're part of God's plan to
answer because He says He will.
I think that's a beautiful picture.
I think that's what gets me up in the
morning and going because I know there's
people that are waiting on me to seek God,
to ask God, and to knock, no matter what,
boldly to be able to see people come to
know Jesus, to be able to see God's hand
in their life and working in their life.
So Jesus modeled that.
He said he came to
serve, not to be served.
And for each one of us, we
need to be reminded of that.
We need to be reminded of that.
And I have no clue where my last page is.
There it is.
So let's just think
about how we end today.
I want to kind of pull this
all back together because I
talked about a lot of things.
But, just thinking about this verse
and asking, seeking, and knocking.
Anybody ever struggle with approaching
God with a deep, deep prayer because
you're afraid it's not going to answer?
Anybody?
You're afraid it's not going to answer?
Or you're afraid he's going to answer?
I think there's many of us in this
room that's probably struggled to pray
or we've not got a prayer answered
the way that we desire, right?
And I believe that God is
reminding us in here that it's
not a lack of God answering.
It's not a lack of God answering.
Because I believe God's Word is truth.
I'm telling you as a pastor, as a
believer, I think we have to come to
the conclusion that God's Word is truth.
John 17, 17 said His Word is truth.
I've seen His Word work
in and through my life.
I can't just pick verses that
apply to me and don't apply to me.
I have to read this as truth.
He says he will answer.
He will give.
So I have to say, okay,
what's my part in it?
It's actually whenever I'm asking and
whenever I'm seeking and whenever I'm
knocking, saying Lord, help me accept
whatever your answer is, because I
think it's the accepting part guys.
I truly believe it's not the asking.
I believe it's the accepting the answer
because sometimes God's going to say
no, he's going to say no, because it's.
It's not beneficial for you.
That's why he gives good gifts.
Do you think God would give you a
bad gift because you asked for it?
No.
Because he's a good God.
So when you ask for something that's not
of value for you, you're not gonna get it.
And it's a no.
It's a hard no.
And you'd be like, but I want that.
You know how many times my kids ask for
sweets at like 11pm and I'm like, no.
And they don't know why.
And it's because I want them.
But that's not, I mean, Sorry,
I'm not throwing that off there.
Okay.
God knows what's best for us.
And so I would say this, that
it's not in the asking, it's in
the receiving from God and truly
accepting what he gives us, right?
Truly believing that God's word is good.
So I want you to think through this
with me and it's just kind of just as
I begin to think through some reasons
of why we struggle with praying and
asking and some things that maybe we
can walk through during the invitation.
These are some things that
just came to mind to me.
Here's some conclusions.
Number one, I think it's
more about us not liking.
Him what he, his response is not
God responding, if that makes sense.
It's more us not liking what God responds
to us and our asking than it is about
us just not getting the answer from God.
Number one, I think it's us not
seeking, let me define this,
pursuing God's word, pursuing Jesus.
I, I, I'm guilty of this.
I'll ask, and I mean genuine faith,
I feel like on Monday and I walk away
and, and I don't, I don't perceive Jesus
anymore and I, I'm not seeking his word.
I'm not just asking for wisdom from God.
I just, I ask and just move on.
And I think sometimes it's in the
seeking where we find the jewels, where
we see God show up, where we see in
the word, where God affirms something.
And I think about the critical times
in my life where I truly sought God.
God's word was the thing that gave
me the peace of the affirming answer.
So I think sometimes
it's us just not seeking.
And number three, this is the last one.
I think it's us talking about.
But never knocking.
Let me give you a great example.
Anybody ever call a friend?
I've heard about everything that
you don't have, and God's not
moving, and you wished you had.
You ever had that?
And then you just go on with life.
God's sitting there.
He's seeing you call your friend.
He's seeing you tell your
friend all the needs.
But you never knocked.
He never asked.
And He's saying, I'm waiting.
He said, this is the cool
part with the seeking.
It's there.
But we refuse to knock.
And be active in truly seeking the Lord.
So, that's how we're going
to kind of lead Invitation.
I want to take time to walk you through.
I love this about Invitation.
Until God changes my heart, I
want to make sure I'm continually
leading you through Invitation.
Than to just say, Hey, we're
going to pray during this time.
And you're just like,
What do I pray about?
I really want to lead you through this.
And I really want that to drive you into
how God transforms your heart this week.
Does that sound good?
Alright, let's just
start off with a prayer.
Lord Jesus, we just
thank you so much, Lord.
We thank you for your word.
We thank you for your truth.
We thank you that you say that
it's day we ask and we seek and
we not look that you will respond.
But Lord, I'm praying that you
begin to soften our hearts right
now to learn what we hear from
you and how you respond to us.
So what I want to start with today is as
we continue to pray, this is the first
thing that I want you to just pray.
Wherever you are.
I want you to just pray and
ask God to forgive you for not
accepting his response in the past.
I just want you to ask God this
and say, Lord, forgive me for
not accepting your response
I want you to now just ask him
to help you see his response
when you ask him in the future.
Help him to give you the
perspective that he has
right now.
This is what I want you to do.
I want you to pray and
ask God to help you truly.
To truly seek Him, not just sit
on the sidelines and ask, but to
seek His Word, to seek prayer,
and to daily walk with Jesus.
So just ask God to help
you truly seek Him.
Okay, the
last thing I want you to do is I
want you to begin to, use a big
word here, repent or turn from.
And ask God to help you stop telling other
people your problems and not telling God.
And I'm not saying don't tell
other people your problems,
but I'm saying make sure that.
So, just ask God to help you and remind
you to knock and tell Him your problems.
So begin to ask God that now to help you.
Alright, as we get ready to move into
a time of worship, there's a couple
things I really want to challenge
you, those sitting in the seats here.
This idea behind seeking, asking.
You know, it starts with the relationship
because I'll just tell you this, if
you walked up to a random person today
and begin to ask some of the things
that we ask God and begin to seek
that person and to knock on their
life, they're going to not talk to you
because you're a weird, awkward person.
But I'll tell you this, if you build a
relationship with that person, if you
invite them into a relationship, if
they accept you into a relationship,
that's a different perspective.
You can ask and you can
knock and you can seek.
So God.
If God is saying that same thing
to you today, it's hard to ask a
God that you've never accepted.
It's hard to seek a God you've
never sought after before.
It's hard to ever knock on His door
because you don't know where He is.
So if you've never given your life
to Jesus, if you've never accepted
Christ and turned your life over
to Him, today you can do that.
Today you can repent of your sins,
turn to God and say, I need you.
I need you.
It's simple in the fact that God has done
all the work and it's up to us to accept
what He's done on the cross for our sins.
So I challenge you.
So that it starts with saying
yes, Jesus, I need you.
It starts with repenting of
your sins and accepting God.
And that's your beginning ask of God.
And here's what God
promises, He will save you.
He will forgive you of your sins
and He will transform your life.
How do I know that?
Because He's transformed mine.
And He's transformed so many
people's lives that I've seen that
have truly served the life to them.
So I just, I challenge you today, if
you've never given your life to Jesus,
that you do that right where you are.
That you ask God to come into your life.
And if you have any questions during
this time of worship that we're getting
ready to have, I'm gonna be in the back.
I'd love to talk to you about
how you give your lives to Jesus.
That's where I want you to go
if you have those questions.
But as we continue to worship, don't just
stand there half heartedly worshiping.
I want you to begin to grasp God
and use this newfound challenge
to ask and to seek and to not.
And this is what Philippians says,
Don't worry about anything but in
everything through prayer and petition.
With Thanksgiving present your request to
God and the peace of God, which surpasses
all understanding will guard your
hearts and mind increase Jesus Christ.
So my challenge to you during
worship is to begin to accept the
good gifts that God has for you.
Begin to ask and seek God today, and
then leave this time of worship and
begin to experience it this whole
week and the rest of your life.
Because God says to come to me, all
who are weird Ed and I will give you.
So Lord Jesus, we pray
that you just change lives.
You continue changing lives, Lord.
I pray if there's a person in this
room that doesn't know you, I pray
that they come to faith in you, Lord.
I pray that they come back and talk
to me, Lord, if they have questions.
Lord, I believe that your word
doesn't return void, so Lord, I'm
praying that there's something that
every person can take home today.
That they can even take
the word faith home.
That faith is seeing what you see,
Lord, even though we don't see it.
That they begin to ask and to receive
and to experience something new.
God, show up.
And Lord, we'll celebrate because we
know that you are a God that pursues us.
You're a God that cares for us.
And you're a God that loves us.
So Lord, be with us as we
take some time to worship.
So we pray this in your heavenly name.
Amen.